  ---
  Day 2 — Roadmap Position

  Milestone 1, Step 2. You have the hardware mental
  model. Now we meet the actual model we are
  optimizing — Diffusion Policy. Today we export it to
   ONNX, measure its baseline latency, and use Nsight
  Systems to find the top 3 bottlenecks. This is the
  profiling foundation that justifies every
  optimization we build in Days 3 through 7.

  ---
  1. The Concept in Plain Language

  Before you optimize anything, you measure it. This
  sounds obvious but most people skip it — they guess
  where the bottleneck is and optimize the wrong
  thing. The FlowRT spec is explicit about this: every
   kernel exists to serve a specific measured
  bottleneck, not as a demonstration of skill.

  Today we are doing three things:

  1. Export Diffusion Policy from PyTorch to ONNX
  format
  2. Run a baseline inference loop and measure latency
  3. Profile it with Nsight Systems to see exactly
  where time is being spent

  ---
  2. The ML Theory Connection

  What is Diffusion Policy?

  Diffusion Policy is a robot learning architecture
  from Chi et al. 2023. A robot arm watches a human
  perform a task — pick up a cup, open a drawer — and
  learns to imitate it. The policy takes in sensor
  observations (camera images, joint positions) and
  outputs a sequence of actions for the robot to
  execute.

  The reason it uses flow matching instead of a
  simpler regression model is that robot actions are
  multimodal. Given the same scene, a human might
  reach for a cup from the left or from the right —
  both are valid. A standard regression model averages
   them and outputs a path straight through the cup.
  Flow matching can represent the full distribution of
   valid behaviors and sample coherently from it.

  The architecture is a transformer with time
  conditioning — at every layer, the current timestep
  t is injected so the model knows how far along the
  denoising trajectory it is. This is the
  architectural detail that motivates our fused
  LayerNorm+Linear+time injection kernel on Day 4.

  What is ONNX?

  ONNX (Open Neural Network Exchange) is a standard
  file format for neural networks. You train in
  PyTorch, export to ONNX, and then any runtime (ONNX
  Runtime, TensorRT, FlowRT) can load and run it
  without needing PyTorch. It captures the model as a
  computation graph — nodes are operations, edges are
  tensors.

  This is how FlowRT stays model-agnostic. It does not
   care that you trained in PyTorch. It loads the ONNX
   graph and runs it.

  ---
  3. The FlowRT Connection

  The baseline we measure today is the number
  everything else is compared against. When we say the
   persistent kernel gives a 5x speedup, that is 5x
  over this number. When we say speculative flow
  matching gives 10x, that is 10x over this number.

  If we do not measure carefully now, our speedup
  claims mean nothing.

  ---
  4. Implementation

  On your pod, first install the dependencies:

  pip install diffusers huggingface_hub onnx
  onnxruntime-gpu
